Nice job on installing and setting up MySQL.
Now, you're going to learn how to create a table in MySQL.
We'll be using the MySQL client to execute our SQL statements.
Let's assume you are a developer in
an e-commerce application and you're building the persistence layer for it.
The basic function of this application is to allow customers to buy items.
Let's go ahead and create a table to capture the ordered information.
Here's the create table statement to create an order table.
Create table as it says, creates a table.
It is followed by the table name and a set of
column definitions and the constraint that is imposed on the table.
The only constraint on this table is that
the order ID column is the primary key or the unique identifier for a row.
Column definitions have the column name,
the data type of the column,
and a qualifier or a constraint like this.
The quantifier for order ID is auto increment,
which tells the database to automatically
increment the values of the column upon each insertion.
Item name, for example,
has the type as VARCHAR which is 300 characters long and its constraint is not null,
which means whenever a record is inserted into the order table,
a value for item name must be present.
Let's go ahead and create this table.
Our table has created.
Let's see if this table was actually created.
Okay, we see one table which is Orders.
Let's examine the table structure.
All right, so you have all the columns that was defined in
the original create table definition listed over
here and then we can see all the data types,
the constraints that we have added.
Note that ORDER_ID was set as the primary key and it is marked as the primary key here.
The qualifiers is also marked here,
which is auto increment.